---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Block matching 3D random noise filtering for absorption optical projection tomography"
shorttitle: 2010-PMB
date: 2010-03-15 16:40:16
description: Physics in Medicine and Biology
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2010-PMB.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: imageprocessing
importance: 2010-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2010-PMB] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"Absorption and emission optical projection tomography (OPT), alternatively referred to as optical computed tomography (optical-CT) and optical-emission computed tomography (optical-ECT), are recently developed three-dimensional imaging techniques with value for developmental biology and ex vivo gene expression studies. The techniques' principles are similar to the ones used for x-ray computed tomography and are based on the approximation of negligible light scattering in optically cleared samples. The optical clearing is achieved by a chemical procedure which aims at substituting the cellular fluids within the sample with a cell membranes' index matching solution. Once cleared the sample presents very low scattering and is then illuminated with a light collimated beam whose intensity is captured in transillumination mode by a CCD camera. Different projection images of the sample are subsequently obtained over a 360 degrees full rotation, and a standard backprojection algorithm can be used in a similar fashion as for x-ray tomography in order to obtain absorption maps. Because not all biological samples present significant absorption contrast, it is not always possible to obtain projections with a good signal-to-noise ratio, a condition necessary to achieve high-quality tomographic reconstructions. Such is the case for example, for early stage's embryos. In this work we demonstrate how, through the use of a random noise removal algorithm, the image quality of the reconstructions can be considerably improved even when the noise is strongly present in the acquired projections. Specifically, we implemented a block matching 3D (BM3D) filter applying it separately on each acquired transillumination projection before performing a complete three-dimensional tomographical reconstruction. To test the efficiency of the adopted filtering scheme, a phantom and a real biological sample were processed. In both cases, the BM3D filter led to a signal-to-noise ratio increment of over 30 dB on severe noise-affected reconstructions revealing original-noise-hidden-image details. These results show the utility of the BM3D approach for OPT under typical conditions of very low light absorption, suggesting its implementation as an efficient alternative to other filtering schemes such as for example the median filter."
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2010-PMB%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2010-PMB.png" title="2010-PMB.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2010-PMB %}
   </div>
</div>
