---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Accurate measurement of pancreatic islet beta-cell mass using a second-generation fluorescent exendin-4 analog"
shorttitle: 2011-PNAS
date: 2011-03-15 16:40:16
description: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2011-PNAS.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: systemsbiology
importance: 2011-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2011-PNAS] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"The hallmark of type 1 diabetes is autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells of the pancreatic islets. Autoimmune diabetes has been difficult to study or treat because it is not usually diagnosed until substantial beta-cell loss has already occurred. Imaging agents that permit noninvasive visualization of changes in beta-cell mass remain a high-priority goal. We report on the development and testing of a near-infrared fluorescent beta-cell imaging agent. Based on the amino acid sequence of exendin-4, we created a neopeptide via introduction of an unnatural amino acid at the K(12) position, which could subsequently be conjugated to fluorophores via bioorthogonal copper-catalyzed click-chemistry. Cell assays confirmed that the resulting fluorescent probe (E4(x12)-VT750) had a high binding affinity (similar to 3 nM). Its in vivo properties were evaluated using high-resolution intravital imaging, histology, whole-pancreas visualization, and endoscopic imaging. According to intravital microscopy, the probe rapidly bound to beta-cells and, as demonstrated by confocal microscopy, it was internalized. Histology of the whole pancreas showed a close correspondence between fluorescence and insulin staining, and there was an excellent correlation between imaging signals and beta-cell mass in mice treated with streptozotocin, a beta-cell toxin. Individual islets could also be visualized by endoscopic imaging. In short, E4(x12)-VT750 showed strong and selective binding to glucose-like peptide-1 receptors and permitted accurate measurement of beta-cell mass in both diabetic and nondiabetic mice. This near-infrared imaging probe, as well as future radioisotope-labeled versions of it, should prove to be important tools for monitoring diabetes, progression, and treatment in both experimental and clinical contexts."
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2011-PNAS%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2011-PNAS.png" title="2011-PNAS.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2011-PNAS %}
   </div>
</div>
