---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Searching for anatomical correlates of olfactory lateralization in the honeybee antennal lobes: A morphological and behavioural study"
shorttitle: 2011-BBR
date: 2011-03-15 16:40:16
description: Behavioural Brain Research
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2011-BBR.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: microscopy
importance: 2011-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2011-BBR] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"The honeybee, Apis mellifera L (Hymenoptera: Apidae), has recently become a model for studying brain asymmetry among invertebrates. A strong lateralization favouring the right antenna was discovered in odour learning and short-term memory recall experiments, and a lateral shift favouring the left antenna for long-term memory recall. Corresponding morphological asymmetries have been found in the distribution of olfactory sensilla between the antennae and confirmed by electrophysiological odour response measurements in isolated right and left antennae. The aim of this study was to investigate whether a morphological asymmetry can be observed in the volume of the primary olfactory centres of the central nervous system, the antennal lobes (ALs). Precise volume measurements of a subset of their functional units, the glomeruli, were performed in both sides of the brain, exploiting the advantages of two-photon microscopy. This novel method allowed minimal invasive acquisition of volume images of the ALs, avoiding artefacts from brain extraction and dehydration. The study was completed by a series of behavioural experiments in which response asymmetry in odour recall following proboscis extension reflex conditioning was assessed for odours, chosen to stimulate strong activity in the same glomeruli as in the morphological study. The volumetric measurements found no evidence of lateralization in the investigated glomeruli within the experimental limits. Instead, in the behavioural experiments, a striking odour dependence of the lateralization was observed. The results are discussed on the basis of recent neurophysiological and ethological experiments in A. mellifera. (C) 2011 Elsevier BM. All rights reserved."
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2011-BBR%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2011-BBR.png" title="2011-BBR.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2011-BBR %}
   </div>
</div>
