---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Improved intravital microscopy via synchronization of respiration and holder stabilization"
shorttitle: 2012-JBO
date: 2012-03-15 16:40:16
description: Journal of Biomedical Optics
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2012-JBO.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: microscopy
importance: 2012-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2012-JBO] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"A major challenge in high-resolution intravital confocal and multiphoton microscopy is physiologic tissue movement during image acquisition. Of the various physiological sources of movement, respiration has arguably the largest and most wide-ranging effect. We describe a technique for achieving stabilized microscopy imaging using a dual strategy. First, we designed a mechanical stabilizer for constraining physical motion; this served to simultaneously increase the in-focus range over which data can be acquired as well as increase the reproducibility of imaging a certain position within each confocal imaging plane. Second, by implementing a retrospective breathing-gated imaging modality, we performed selective image extraction gated to a particular phase of the respiratory cycle. Thanks to the high reproducibility in position, all gated images presented a high degree of correlation over time. The images obtained using this technique not only showed significant improvements over images acquired without the stabilizer, but also demonstrated accurate in vivo imaging during longitudinal studies. The described methodology is easy to implement with any commercial imaging system, as are used by most biological imaging laboratories, and can be used for both confocal and multiphoton laser scanning microscopy. c 2012 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE). [DOI: 10.1117/1.JBO.17.9.096018]"
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2012-JBO%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2012-JBO.png" title="2012-JBO.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2012-JBO %}
   </div>
</div>
