---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Extended dynamic range imaging for noise mitigation in fluorescence anisotropy imaging"
shorttitle: 2020-JBO
date: 2020-03-15 16:40:16
description: Journal of Biomedical Optics
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2020-JBO.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: imageprocessing
importance: 2020-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2020-JBO] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"Significance: Fluorescence polarization (FP) and fluorescence anisotropy (FA) microscopy are powerful imaging techniques that allow to translate the common IT assay capabilities into the in vitro and in vivo cellular domain. As a result, they have found potential for mapping drug- protein or protein-protein interactions. Unfortunately, these imaging modalities are ratiometric in nature and as such they suffer from excessive noise even under regular imaging conditions, preventing accurate image-feature analysis of fluorescent molecules behaviors. Aim: We present a high dynamic range (HDR)-based FA imaging modality for improving image quality in FA microscopy. Approach: The method exploits ad hoc acquisition schemes to extend the dynamic range of individual FP channels, allowing to obtain FA images with increased signal-to-noise ratio. Results: A direct comparison between FA images obtained with our method and the standard, clearly indicates how an HDR-based FA imaging approach allows to obtain high-quality images, with the ability to correctly resolve image features at different values of FA and over a substantially higher range of fluorescence intensities. Conclusion: The method presented is shown to outperform standard FA imaging microscopy narrowing the spread of the propagated error and yielding higher quality images. The method can be effectively and routinely used on any commercial imaging system and could be also translated to other microscopy ratiometric imaging modalities. (C) The Authors. Published by SPIE under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 Unported License."
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2020-JBO%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2020-JBO.png" title="2020-JBO.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2020-JBO %}
   </div>
</div>
