---
layout: papersgallerypage
title: "Cerebrospinal fluid can exit into the skull bone marrow and instruct cranial hematopoiesis in mice with bacterial meningitis"
shorttitle: 2022-NN
date: 2022-03-15 16:40:16
description: Nature Neuroscience
img: /assets/img/papers/extract/2022-NN.jpg
tags: formatting links
category: systemsbiology
importance: 2022-03-15 16:40:16
social: true
---
<div class="publications">
   {% bibliography -f papers -q @*[key=2022-NN] %}
</div>


<i class="fa fa-sticky-note" aria-hidden="true"></i> Abstract
<p>  <div style="font-size:0.85em; text-align: justify;">"Interactions between the immune and central nervous systems strongly influence brain health. Although the blood-brain barrier restricts this crosstalk, we now know that meningeal gateways through brain border tissues facilitate intersystem communication. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which interfaces with the glymphatic system and thereby drains the brain's interstitial and perivascular spaces, facilitates outward signaling beyond the blood-brain barrier. In the present study, we report that CSF can exit into the skull bone marrow. Fluorescent tracers injected into the cisterna magna of mice migrate along perivascular spaces of dural blood vessels and then travel through hundreds of sub-millimeter skull channels into the calvarial marrow. During meningitis, bacteria hijack this route to invade the skull's hematopoietic niches and initiate cranial hematopoiesis ahead of remote tibial sites. As skull channels also directly provide leukocytes to meninges, the privileged sampling of brain-derived danger signals in CSF by regional marrow may have broad implications for inflammatory neurological disorders. This manuscript describes a new cerebral spinal fluid exit route via hundreds of skull channels, with the cranial bone marrow as a destination. In meningitis, bacteria hijack this path and alert hematopoietic stem cells residing in the skull marrow."
</div> </p>
<div class="cv">
   <div class="card mt-3 p-3">
      <h3 class="card-title font-weight-light " style='color:purple'>Full citation</h3>
      <h6 >  For attribution in academic contexts, please cite this work as: </h6>      
      <div>
         <table class="table table-sm table-borderless">
            <tr>
               <td class="p-0 pr-2 font-weight-light text-justify font-italic"><span style="color:purple">{% reference 2022-NN%}</span></td>
              </tr>
         </table>
      </div>
   </div>
</div>

<br>

---
<br>
<div class="row">
   <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
      {% include figure.html path="assets/img/papers/cover/2022-NN.png" title="2022-NN.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
   </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
   <div style="text-align: justify"> {% reference 2022-NN %}
   </div>
</div>
